# Introducation

Welcome to the Stack Overflow Annual Developer Survey Analysis project. This endeavor is an integral part of my growing portfolio in the field of data analysis. In this project, we harness the power of Python, specifically the NumPy and Pandas libraries for data manipulation, and Matplotlib and Seaborn for visualization.

Why a Jupyter Notebook?

I have chosen to present this project in a Jupyter Notebook, a dynamic platform that seamlessly integrates code and visualizations. This decision ensures that the analytical process, code, and insightful graphics are conveniently at your fingertips.

Data Accessibility

For the analysis at hand, we rely on the extensive dataset generated by the 2023 Stack Overflow Developer Survey. While the dataset is immensely valuable, it surpasses GitHub's default file size limitations. Hence, I provide a direct reference to the dataset, available for exploration and analysis at [insights.stackoverflow.com/survey](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey).

# Annual-developer-survey-analysis

The Stack Overflow Annual Developer Survey stands as a cornerstone in the tech industry, offering a comprehensive snapshot of the global developer community's demographics, preferences, and trends. 

Significance of the Survey
The significance of the Stack Overflow Developer Survey lies in its ability to capture valuable insights into the preferences, practices, and challenges faced by developers worldwide. With [~90k respondents](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2023/#methodology-general) from various countries and professional backgrounds, the survey provides a rich dataset that serves as a compass for industry trends, guiding developers, employers, and educators alike.

Purpose of the Analysis
In this data analysis project, I delved into the wealth of information offered by the 2023 Stack Overflow Developer Survey. my focus centered on the field of data and business analysis, where I aimed to extract meaningful patterns, uncover notable trends, and draw actionable conclusions. By leveraging the cleaned survey data, my goal is to contribute insights that shed light on the dynamics of the developer community within the context of data-related roles.

Survey Data Accessibility
The Stack Overflow team meticulously curates and cleans the survey data, making it readily available for exploration and analysis. The dataset, too extensive for GitHub's default upload, can be accessed directly from insights.stackoverflow.com/survey. As we embark on this exploration, we invite you to join us in uncovering the nuanced narratives that emerge from the responses of developers around the globe.

# Installation

You can view a rendered version of the notebook [here](SO-2023-survey.ipynb).  
Or a pdf version of the notebook [here](SO-2023-survey.pdf)

### Prerequisites
- **Python:** Ensure that Python is installed on your machine. You can download it from [python.org](https://www.python.org/).
- **Jupyter Lab:** Install Jupyter Lab using the following command in your terminal or command prompt:
  ```bash
  pip install jupyter lab
- **External Libraries:** Use `pip install` for library installation.
  ```bash
  pip install pandas numpy matplotlib ipywidgets scipy

### Steps  
1. **Download:** Download the Jupyter notebook file [SO-2023-survey.ipynb](SO-2023-survey.ipynb) from this repository to your local machine.

2. **Run Jupyter Lab Server:**
  - Open a terminal or command prompt.
  - Navigate to the directory where you saved the notebook file.
  - Run the following command:
    ```bash
    jupyter lab

3. **Access the notebook:**
  - Open your web browser and go to the URL displayed in the terminal.
  - Navigate to the notebook file and click on it to open.
    
4. **Interact with the Notebook:**
  - Execute code cells using the "Run" button or by pressing Shift + Enter.

# Usage
It is recommended to `Run all cells` as this ensures all cells to execute properly. 

# Structure
1. **SO-2023-survey.ipynb:** Jupyter notebook containing queries and figures about the Stackoverflow developer survey.

2. **SO-2023-survey.pdf:** Pdf rendition of the aforementioned jupyter notebook.

3. **README.md:** Instructions on how to get started, install dependencies, and use the Jupyter notebook.

4. - **/stack-overflow-developer-survey-2023/so_survey_2023.pdf** Survey textbody that people filled out.
   - **/stack-overflow-developer-survey-2023/survey_results_schema.csv** Schema of the survey listing question id, question name and question text body.

# Dependencies
- **Python:** Version 3.10.12
- **Jupyter Lab:** Version 4.0.5
- **Libraries:**
  - NumPy: Version 1.25.2
  - pandas: Version 2.0.3
  - matplotlib: Version 3.7.2
  - IPython: Version 8.14.0
  - seaborn: Version 0.12.2

# License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](license.txt) file for details.

# References
The survey data can be openly accessed via [insights.stackoverflow.com/survey](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey)

